Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
Cats don’t have sweat glands over their bodies like humans do. Instead, they sweat only through their paws.
A tomcat (male cat) can begin mating when he is between 7 and 10 months old.
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
The Pilgrims were the first to introduce cats to North America.
A cat will tremble or shiver when it is extreme pain.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
While it is commonly thought that the ancient Egyptians were the first to domesticate cats, the oldest known pet cat was recently found in a 9,500-year-old grave on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus. This grave predates early Egyptian art depicting cats by 4,000 years or more.
Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.
A cat’s back is extremely flexible because it has up to 53 loosely fitting vertebrae. Humans only have 34.
Contrary to popular belief, the cat is a social animal. A pet cat will respond and answer to speech , and seems to enjoy human companionship.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
Female cats are polyestrous
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
In Japan, cats are thought to have the power to turn into super spirits when they die. This may be because according to the Buddhist religion, the body of the cat is the temporary resting place of very spiritual people.i
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”
A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.
Cats control the outer ear using 32 muscles; humans use 6
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.
There are approximately 60,000 hairs per square inch on the back of a cat and about 120,000 per square inch on its underside.
A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
When your cats rubs up against you, she is actually marking you as 'hers' with her scent. If your cat pushes his face against your head, it is a sign of acceptance and affection.
A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
A cat named Dusty, aged 1 7, living in Bonham, Texas, USA, gave birth to her 420th kitten on June 23, 1952.
The Egyptian Mau is probably the oldest breed of cat. In fact, the breed is so ancient that its name is the Egyptian word for “cat.”
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
Unlike other cats, lions have a tuft of hair at the end of their tails.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
A cat has the ability to rotate their ears 180 degrees,with the help of 32 muscles that they use to control them.
Cats have the largest eyes of any mammal.
Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.
Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.
On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.
Milk can give some cats diarrhea.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
Most cats give birth to a litter of between one and nine kittens. The largest known litter ever produced was 19 kittens, of which 15 survived.
In one stride, a cheetah can cover 23 to 26 feet (7 to 8 meters).
A queen (female cat) can begin mating when she is between 5 and 9 months old.
A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.
A cat's nose is as unique as a human's fingerprint.
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
The cat's footpads absorb the shocks of the landing when the cat jumps.
Like humans, cats tend to favor one paw over another
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
A group of cats is called a “clowder.”
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.
Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
Smuggling a cat out of ancient Egypt was punishable by death. Phoenician traders eventually succeeded in smuggling felines, which they sold to rich people in Athens and other important cities.
When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.
The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.
While many cats enjoy milk, it will give some cats diarrhea.
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. I n the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.
A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
Tylenol and chocolate are both poisionous to cats.
The Ancient Egyptian word for cat was mau, which means "to see".
Florence Nightingale owned more than 60 cats in her lifetime.
Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.
The longest living cat on record according to the Guinness Book belongs to the late Creme Puff of Austin, Texas who lived to the ripe old age of 38 years and 3 days!
If a cat is frightened, the hair stands up fairly evenly all over the body; when the cat is threatened or is ready to attack, the hair stands up only in a narrow band along the spine and tail.
Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
It has been scientifically proven that stroking a cat can lower one's blood pressure.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
About 37% of American homes today have at least 1 cat.
Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
All cats need taurine in their diet to avoid blindness. Cats must also have fat in their diet as they are unable to produce it on their own.
Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.
There is a species of cat smaller than the average housecat. It is native to Africa and it is the Black-footed cat (Felis nigripes). Its top weight is 5.5 pounds.
Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.
Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.
The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
A cat's appetite is the barometer of its health. Any cat that does not eat or drink for more than two days should be taken to a vet.
A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. 
The cat has 500 skeletal muscles (humans have 650).
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.
The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).
